784 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS—PART A: SYSTEMS AND HUMANS, VOL. 42, NO. 3, MAY 2012
An Ontology-Based Text-Mining Method to Cluster
Proposals for Research Project Selection
Jian Ma, Wei Xu, Yong-hong Sun, Efraim Turban,
Shouyang Wang, and Ou Liu
Abstract—Research project selection is an important task for govern-
Fig. 1. Research project selection processes in the NSFC.
ment and private research funding agencies. When a large number of
research proposals are received, it is common to group them according
Fig. 1 shows the processes of research project selection at the
to their similarities in research disciplines. The grouped proposals are
then assigned to the appropriate experts for peer review. Current meth-
National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC), i.e., CFP,
ods for grouping proposals are based on manual matching of similar
proposal submission, proposal grouping, proposal assignment to ex-
research discipline areas and/or keywords. However, the exact research
perts, peer review, aggregation of review results, panel evaluation,
discipline areas of the proposals cannot often be accurately designated
and ﬁnal awarding decision [1]. These processes are very similar in
by the applicants due to their subjective views and possible misinter-
pretations. Therefore, rich information in the proposals’ full text can be other funding agencies, except that there are a very large number of
used effectively. Text-mining methods have been proposed to solve the
proposals that need to be grouped for peer review in the NSFC.
problem by automatically classifying text documents, mainly in English.
In the NSFC, the number of research proposals received has more
However, these methods have limitations when dealing with non-English
than doubled in the past four years, with over 110 000 proposals
language texts, e.g., Chinese research proposals. This paper presents a
submitted in one deadline in March 2010. Four to ﬁve reviewers are
novel ontology-based text-mining approach to cluster research proposals
based on their similarities in research areas. The method is efﬁcient and
assigned to review each proposal so as to assure accurate and reliable
effective for clustering research proposals with both English and Chinese
opinions on proposals. To deal with the large volume, it is necessary to
texts. The method also includes an optimization model that considers ap-
group proposals according to their similarities in research disciplines
plicants’ characteristics for balancing proposals by geographical regions.
and then to assign the proposal groups to relevant reviewers.
The proposed method is tested and validated based on the selection process
at the National Natural Science Foundation of China. The results can also Founded in 1986, the NSFC is the largest government funding
be used to improve the efﬁciency and effectiveness of research project
agency in China, with the primary aim to fund and manage basic
selection processes in other government and private research funding
research. The agency is made up of seven scientiﬁc departments, four
agencies.
bureaus, one general ofﬁce, and three associated units. The scientiﬁc
Index Terms—Clustering analysis, decision support systems, ontology,
departments are the decision-making units responsible for funding
research project selection, text mining.
recommendations and management of funded projects. Departments
are classiﬁed according to scientiﬁc research areas, including mathe-
I. INTRODUCTION
matical and physical sciences, chemical sciences, life sciences, earth
sciences,engineeringandmaterialsciences,informationsciences,and
Selection of research projects is an important and recurring activity
management sciences. These departments are further divided into 40
in many organizations such as government research funding agencies.
divisions with a focus on more speciﬁc research areas. For example,
It is a challenging multiprocess task that begins with a call for pro-
the Department of Management Science is further divided into three
posals (CFP) by a funding agency. The CFP is distributed to relevant
divisions:ManagementScienceandEngineering,MacroManagement
communities such as universities or research institutions. The research
and Policy,andBusiness Administration. Furthermore, divisions are
proposals are submitted to the funding agency and then are assigned
divided into discipline areas called programs.
to experts for peer review. The review results are collected, and the
The department is responsible for the selection tasks, and it ded-
proposals are then ranked based on the aggregation of the experts’
icates the tasks to divisions or programs. Division managers or pro-
review results.
gram directors then group the proposals and assign them to external
reviewers for evaluation and commentary. However, they may not have
adequate knowledge in all research disciplines, and contents of many
proposals were not fully understood when the proposals were grouped.
Manuscript received October 13, 2009; revised June 22, 2010 and
January 14, 2011; accepted May 31, 2011. Date of publication March 19, Therefore, there was an urgent need for an effective and feasible
2012; date of current version April 13, 2012. This work was supported in part
approach to group the submitted research proposals with computer
by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Project No. 71001103,
supports. An ontology-based text-mining approach is proposed to
71171172, and J1124003) and in part by the General Research Fund of the
solve the problem.
Hong Kong SAR Government (Project No: 119611). This paper was recom-
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II
mended by Associate Editor W. Pedrycz.
J. Ma and E. Turban are with the Department of Information Systems, City
reviews the literature on research project selection and grouping of
University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong (e-mail: isjian@cityu.edu.hk;
proposals. The proposed method is described in Section III. Section IV
efraimtur@yahoo.com).
validates and evaluates the method, and then discusses the potential
W. Xu is with the School of Information, Renmin University of China,
application in the NSFC. Finally, Section V provides the conclusion,
Beijing 100872, China (e-mail: weixu@ruc.edu.cn).
Y.-H. Sun is with the School of Management, Xi’an Jiaotong University,
and it points to future work.
Xi’an 710049, China (e-mail: simonsun@mail.xjtu.edu.cn).
S. Wang is with the Institute of Systems Science, Academy of Mathematics
and Systems Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080, China
II. LITERATURE REVIEW
(e-mail: sywang@amss.ac.cn).
O. Liu is with the School of Accounting and Finance, The Hong Kong Poly-
Selection of research projects is an important research topic in
technic University, Kowloon, Hong Kong (e-mail: aﬂiuou@inet.polyu.edu.hk).
research and development (R&D) project management. Previous re-
Color versions of one or more of the ﬁgures in this paper are available online
search deals with speciﬁc topics, and several formal methods and
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TSMCA.2011.2172205 models are available for this purpose. For example, Chen and Gorla
1083-4427/$31.00 © 2012 IEEE
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS—PART A: SYSTEMS AND HUMANS, VOL. 42, NO. 3, MAY 2012 785
[2] proposed a fuzzy-logic-based model as a decision tool for project
selection. Henriksen and Traynor [3] presented a scoring tool for
project evaluation and selection. Ghasemzadeh and Archer [4] offered
a decision support approach to project portfolio selection. Machacha
and Bhattacharya [5] proposed a fuzzy logic approach to project selec-
tion. Butleretal. [6] used a multiple attribute utility theory for project
ranking and selection. Loch and Kavadias [7] established a dynamic
programming model for project selection, while Meade and Presley
[8] developed an analytic network process model. Greiner et al. [9]
proposed a hybrid AHP and integer programming approach to support
project selection, and Tian et al. [10] suggested an organizational
decision support approach for selecting R&D projects.
Cook et al. [11] presented a method of optimal allocation of
proposals to reviewers in order to facilitate the selection process.
Arya and Mittendorf [12] proposed a rotation program method for
project assignment. Choi and Park [13] used text-mining approach
for R&D proposal screening. Girotra et al. [14] offered an empirical
study to value projects in a portfolio. Sun et al. [15] developed a
decision support system to evaluate reviewers for research project
selection. Finally, Sun et al. [16] proposed a hybrid knowledge-based
and modeling approach to assign reviewers to proposals for research
project selection.
Methods have been developed to group proposals for peer review
tasks. For example, Hettich and Pazzani [17] proposed a text-mining
approach to group proposals, identify reviewers, and assign reviewers
to proposals. Current methods group proposals according to keywords.
Unfortunately, proposals with similar research areas might be placed
in wrong groups due to the following reasons: ﬁrst, keywords are
incomplete information about the full content of the proposals. Second,
keywords are provided by applicants who may have subjective views
and misconceptions, and keywords are only a partial representation of
the research proposals. Third, manual grouping is usually conducted
by division managers or program directors in funding agencies. They Fig. 2. Process of the proposed OTMM.
may have different understanding about the research disciplines and
may not have adequate knowledge to assign proposals into the right
focus on English text. TMMs which deal with English are not effective
groups. Text-mining methods (TMMs) [18], [19] have been designed
in processing Chinese text [28]. For example, Chinese text consists
to group proposals based on understating the English text, but they
of strings of Chinese characters, while English text uses words. Also,
have limitations when dealing with other language texts, e.g., in
Chinese text has no delimiters to mark word boundaries, while English
Chinese. Also, when the number of proposals and reviewers increases
text uses a space as word delimiter. Several methods were proposed
(e.g., 110 000 proposals and 70 000 reviewers at the NSFC), it becomes
to deal with Chinese text [29]–[32], but they are not efﬁcient or
a real challenge to ﬁnd an effective and feasible method to group
sufﬁciently robust to process research proposals.
research proposals written in Chinese.
To solve the aforementioned problems, an ontology-based TMM
This paper presents a hybrid method for grouping Chinese re-
(OTMM) is proposed. An ontology is a knowledge repository in which
search proposals for project selection. It uses text-mining, multilingual
concepts and terms are deﬁned as well as relationships between these
ontology, optimization, and statistical analysis techniques to cluster
concepts [38]–[41]. It consists of a set of concepts, axioms, and
research proposals based on their similarities. The proposed approach
relationships that describe a domain of interests and represents an
has been successfully tested at the NSFC. The experimental results
agreed-upon conceptualization of the domain’s “real-world” setting.
indicated that the method can also be used to improve the efﬁciency
Implicit knowledge for humans is made explicit for computers by
and effectiveness of the research project selection process.
ontology [42]–[44]. Thus, ontology can automate information pro-
cessing and can facilitate text mining in a speciﬁc domain (such as
research project selection). The proposed OTMM is used together with
III. ONTOLOGY-BASED TEXT MINING TO CLUSTER
statistical method and optimization models and consists of four phases,
RESEARCH PROPOSALS
as shown in Fig. 2. First, a research ontology containing the projects
In the NSFC, after proposals are submitted, the next important task funded in latest ﬁve years is constructed according to keywords, and
is to group proposals and assign them to reviewers. The proposals in it is updated annually (phase 1). Then, new research proposals are
each group should have similar research characteristics. For instance, if classiﬁed according to discipline areas using a sorting algorithm (phase
the proposals in a group fall into the same primary research discipline 2). Next, with reference to the ontology, the new proposals in each dis-
(e.g., supply chain management) and the number of proposals is small, cipline are clustered using a self-organized mapping (SOM) algorithm
manual grouping based on keywords listed in proposals can be used. (phase 3). Finally, (phase 4) if the number of proposals in each cluster
However, if the number of proposals is large, it is very difﬁcult to group is still very large, they will be further decomposed into subgroups
proposals manually. where the applicants’ characteristics are taken into consideration (e.g.,
Although there are several text-mining approaches that can be used applicants’ afﬁliations in each proposal group should be diverse). Each
to cluster and classify documents [20]–[27], they are developed with a phase with its details is described in the following sections.
786 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS—PART A: SYSTEMS AND HUMANS, VOL. 42, NO. 3, MAY 2012
basis of several speciﬁc research areas. Next, it is further di-
vided into some narrower discipline areas. Finally, it leads
to research topics in terms of the feature set of disciplines
created in step 1. The research ontology is constructed,
and its rough structure is shown in Fig. 5. It is more
complex than just a tree-like structure. First, there are some
cross-discipline research areas (e.g., “data mining” can be
placed under “Information Management” in “Management
Sciences” or under “Artiﬁcial Intelligence” in “Information
Sciences”). Second, there are some synonyms used by
different project applicants, which have different names
in different proposals but represent the same concepts.
Therefore, the research ontology allows more complex
Fig. 3. Keywords ofA in a year.
k
relationship between concepts besides the basic tree-like
structure. Also, to deal with proposals with both English
and Chinese text, it is designed as a multilingual ontology
[45], which can process and share knowledge represented
in multiple languages.
Step 3) Updating the research ontology. Once the project funding
is completed each year, the research ontology is updated
according to agency’s policy and the change of the feature
set.
Using the research ontology, the submitted research proposals can
be classiﬁed into disciplines correctly, and research proposal in one
discipline can be clustered effectively and efﬁciently. The details will
be given in the following two sections.
Fig. 4. Feature set ofA .
k B. Phase2:ClassifyingNewResearchProposalsIntoDisciplines
Proposals are classiﬁed by the discipline areas to which they belong.
A. Phase1:ConstructingaResearchOntology A simple sorting algorithm is used next for proposals’ classiﬁcation.
This is done using the research ontology as follows.
Funding agencies such as the NSFC maintain a directory of dis-
Suppose that there are K discipline areas, and A denotes area
k
cipline areas that form a tree structure. As a domain ontology [41],
k(k=1,2,...,K). P denotes proposals i(i=1,2,...,I),andS
i k
a research ontology is a public concept set of the research project
represents the set of proposals which belongs to areak. Then, a sorting
management domain. The research topics of different disciplines can
algorithm can be implemented to classify proposals to their discipline
be clearly expressed by a research ontology. Suppose that there areK
areas, as shown in Table I.
discipline areas, and A denotes discipline area k(k=1,2,...,K).
k
A research ontology can be constructed in the following three steps to
represent the topics of the disciplines.
C. Phase3:ClusteringResearchProposalsBasedonSimilarities
Step 1) Creating the research topics of the disciplineA ,
k UsingTextMining
(k=1,2,...,K). The keywords of the supported
After the research proposals are classiﬁed by the discipline areas,
research projects each year are collected, and their
the proposals in each discipline are clustered using the text-mining
frequencies are counted (shown in Fig. 3). The keywords
technique [18], [19]. The main clustering process consists of ﬁve
and their frequencies are denoted by the feature set
steps, as shown in Fig. 6: text document collection, text document
(No ,ID,year,{(keyword ,frequency),(keyword ,
k k 1 1 2
preprocessing, text document encoding, vector dimension reduction,
frequency ),...,(keyword ,frequency )}),where
2 k k
and text vector clustering.
No is the sequence number of the kth record and ID
k k
The details of each step are as follows.
is the corresponding discipline code. For instance, if
discipline A has two keywords in 2007 (i.e., “data Step 1) Text document collection. After the research proposals are
k
mining”and“business intelligence”) and the total number classiﬁed according to the discipline areas, the proposal
of counts for them are 30 and 50, respectively, the discipline documents in each disciplineA (k=1,2,...,K) are col-
k
can be denoted by (No , ID , 2007, {(data mining, 30), lected for text document preprocessing.
k k
(business intelligence, 50)}). In this way, a feature set of Step 2) Textdocumentpreprocessing. The contents of proposals are
each discipline can be created. The keyword frequency usually nonstructured. Because the texts of the proposals
in the feature set is the sum of the same keywords that consist of Chinese characters which are difﬁcult to seg-
appeared in this discipline during the most recent ﬁve years ment, the research ontology is used to analyze, extract, and
(shown in Fig. 4), and then, the feature set ofA is denoted identify the keywords in the full text of the proposals. For
k
by (No ,ID ,{(keyword ,frequency )(keyword , example, “Research on behavior modeling and detection
k k 1 1 2
frequency ),...,(keyword ,frequency )}). methods in ﬁnancial fraud using ensemble learning” can
2 k k
Step 2) Constructing the research ontology. First, the research on- be divided into word sets {“behavior modeling,” “detection
tology is categorized according to scientiﬁc research areas method,” “ﬁnancial fraud,” “ensemble learning”}. Finally,
introduced in the background. It is then developed on the a further reduction in the vocabulary size can be achieved
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS—PART A: SYSTEMS AND HUMANS, VOL. 42, NO. 3, MAY 2012 787
Fig. 5. Structure of the research ontology.
TA B L E I
the most important keywords in terms of frequency. Latent
SUMMARY OF THE SORTING ALGORITHM
semantic indexing (LSI) is used to solve the problem
[18]. It not only reduces the dimensions of the feature
vectors effectively but also creates the semantic relations
among the keywords. LSI is a technique for substituting
the original data vectors with shorter vectors in which
the semantic information is preserved. To reduce the di-
mensions of the document vectors without losing useful
information in a proposal, a term-by-document matrix is
formed, where there is one column that corresponds to the
term frequency of a document. Furthermore, the term-by-
document matrix is decomposed into a set of eigenvectors
using singular-value decomposition. The eigenvectors that
have the least impacts on the matrix are then discarded.
Thus, the document vector formed from the term of the
remaining eigenvectors has a very small dimension and
retains almost all of the relevant original features.
Step 5) Text vector clustering. This step uses an SOM algorithm
Fig. 6. Main process of text mining.
to cluster the feature vectors based on similarities of re-
search areas. The SOM algorithm is a typical unsupervised
through the removal of all words that appeared only a few
learning neural network model that clusters input data with
times (say less than ﬁve times) in all proposal documents.
similarities. Details of the SOM algorithm [33], [34] can be
Step 3) Text document encoding. After text documents are seg-
summarized as shown in Table II.
mented, they are converted into a feature vector repre-
sentation: V =(v ,v,...,v ),whereM is the number
1 2 M
D. Phase4:BalancingResearchProposalsandRegroupingThemby
of features selected and v (i=1,2,...,M) is the TF-
i
ConsideringApplicants’Characteristics
IDF encoding [18] of the keyword w . TF-IDF encoding
i
describes a weighted method based on inverse document
In this phase, when the number of proposals in one cluster is still
frequency (IDF) combined with the term frequency (TF)
very large (e.g., more than 20), the applicants’ characteristics (e.g.,
to produce the feature v, such that v = tf ∗log(N/df ),
i i i
afﬁliated universities) are considered. As mentioned in Sun et al. [15]
whereN is the total number of proposals in the discipline,
and Fanetal. [35], the proposal group composition should be diverse.
tf is the term frequency of the feature word w ,anddf
i i i
In the past, reviewers sometimes handled proposals improperly, having
is the number of proposals containing the word w . Thus,
i
poor group composition (e.g., the same afﬁliation in a speciﬁc pro-
research proposals can be represented by corresponding
posal group). Reviewers may feel confused and uncomfortable when
feature vectors.
evaluating proposals that may have poor group composition, so it is
Step 4) Vector dimension reduction. The dimension of feature vec-
advisable that the applicants’ characteristics in each proposal group
tors is often too large; thus, it is necessary to reduce the should be as diverse as much as possible. Furthermore, the group size
vectors’ size by automatically selecting a subset containing in each group should be similar. This is done as follows.
788 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS—PART A: SYSTEMS AND HUMANS, VOL. 42, NO. 3, MAY 2012
TA B L E I I
SUMMARY OF THE SOM ALGORITHM
Fig. 7. Relation betweenF measurement andn inE .
1
IV. VALIDATING THE PROPOSED METHOD
To validate the proposed approach, several experiments are con-
ducted using the previous granted research projects. First, two experi-
ments (E andE ) are constructed to evaluate the quality of clustering
1 2
research projects. Second, one experiment (E ) is used to validate
3
the effectiveness and efﬁciency of balancing research projects. In E ,
1
research projects in the discipline called information management are
TABLE III
randomly selected. In E , research projects in the discipline named
2
SUMMARY OF THE GA ALGORITHM
artiﬁcial intelligence are randomly used. InE , research projects with
3
similar topics are randomly selected.
In addition, the typical criterion for text clustering F measurement
is used to measure the quality of clustering research projects. As
mentioned in [37], for generated clusterc and predeﬁned research topic
t, the corresponding Recall and Precision can be calculated as follows:
Precision(c,t)=n(c,t)/n
c
Recall(c,t)=n(c,t)/n
t
wheren(c,t) is the project number of the intersection between cluster
c and topic t. n is the number of projects in cluster c,andn is the
c t
number of projects in topic t. F measurement between cluster c and
topict can be calculated as follows:
We ﬁrst deﬁne an attribute set A that includes the applicant’s
F(c,t)=(2∗ Recall(c,t)∗ Precision(c,t))
characteristics. Then, the following optimization model is formed:
/(Recall(c,t)+Precision(c,t)).
G M−1 M G−1 G M M
max d x x − x − x
ij ig jg ig ih TheF measurement can be given by
g=1 i=1 j>i g=1 h>g i=1 i=1
n
i
F = max{F(i,j)}
G
n
i
s.t. x =1,fori=1,2,...,M,
ig
g=1
where n is the whole number of research projects and i is each
predeﬁned research topic.
x ∈{0,1},fori=1,2,...,M andforg=1,2,...,G.
ig
In order to compare the clustering quality of the OTMM and the
general TMM, the other settings of both methods are kept the same as
where
possible. The relations betweenF measurement and the number of re-
search projectsn in these two disciplines can be found in Figs. 7 and 8.
x decision variable. When a research proposal i is allocated to
ig
In Figs. 7 and 8, it can be seen that the performance of our proposed
groupg,x =1 ; otherwise,x =0 ;
ig ig
method is better than that of the standard TMM. Therefore, the OTMM
d number of different values in the attribute set A between
ij
can be an alternative for clustering research proposals.
research proposalsi andj;
In order to validate the effectiveness and efﬁciency of balancing
M number of research proposals in a cluster;
research projects, 300 research projects with similar topics are ran-
G number of proposal groups.
domly selected, and the different afﬁliations (Northeast, Northwest,
This may be a very complex optimization problem, and one solution Southeast, Southwest, and Middle region) of the applicants were con-
method that could be used is genetic algorithm [35]. Details of the sidered as the attribute set. The number of project groups is set to 60.
GA algorithm [36] (Fan et al. 2008) that are applied in our case are The experimental result shows that the average number of different
summarized as shown in Table III. afﬁliations in a group is 3.75, which is fairly diversiﬁed (see Fig. 9).
                   
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS—PART A: SYSTEMS AND HUMANS, VOL. 42, NO. 3, MAY 2012 789
method can also be used in other government research funding agen-
cies that face information overload problems.
Future work is needed to cluster external reviewers based on their
research areas and to assign grouped research proposals to reviewers
systematically. Also, there is a need to empirically compare the re-
sults of manual classiﬁcation to text-mining classiﬁcation. Finally, the
method can be expanded to help in ﬁnding a better match between
proposals and reviewers.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank the editors and the anonymous
reviewers for their valuable comments and suggestions which have
helped immensely in improving the quality of this paper.
Fig. 8. Relation betweenF measurement andn inE .
2
REFERENCES
[1] Q. Tian, J. Ma, and O. Liu, “A hybrid knowledge and model system for
R&D project selection,” Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 265–271,
Oct. 2002.
[2] K. Chen and N. Gorla, “Information system project selection using fuzzy
logic,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern. A, Syst., Humans, vol. 28, no. 6,
pp. 849–855, Nov. 1998.
[3] A. D. Henriksen and A. J. Traynor, “A practical R&D project-selection
scoring tool,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manag., vol. 46, no. 2, pp. 158–170,
May 1999.
[4] F. Ghasemzadeh and N. P. Archer, “Project portfolio selection through
decision support,” Decis. Support Syst., vol. 29, no. 1, pp. 73–88,
Jul. 2000.
[5] L. L. Machacha and P. Bhattacharya, “A fuzzy-logic-based approach to
project selection,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manag., vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 65–73,
Feb. 2000.
[6] J. Butler, D. J. Morrice, and P. W. Mullarkey, “A multiple attribute utility
theory approach to ranking and selection,” Manage. Sci., vol. 47, no. 6,
Fig. 9. Number of different afﬁliations in each group.
pp. 800–816, Jun. 2001.
[7] C. H. Loch and S. Kavadias, “Dynamic portfolio selection of NPD pro-
The experimental results showed that the proposed method im- grams using marginal returns,” Manage. Sci., vol. 48, no. 10, pp. 1227–
1241, Oct. 2002.
proved the similarity in proposal groups, as well as balanced the
[8] L. M. Meade and A. Presley, “R&D project selection using the analytic
applicants’ characteristics. Therefore, the proposed method promotes
network process,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manag., vol. 49, no. 1, pp. 59–66,
the efﬁciency in the proposal grouping process. By manual grouping,
Feb. 2002.
users need to spend at least one week, while the grouping can be [9] M. A. Greiner, J. W. Fowler, D. L. Shunk, W. M. Carlyle, and
R. T. Mcnett, “A hybrid approach using the analytic hierarchy process and
ﬁnished within hours using the proposed methods. Given that the
integer programming to screen weapon systems projects,” IEEE Trans.
method can expedite the process considerably, it can be used as the ﬁrst
Eng. Manag., vol. 50, no. 2, pp. 192–203, May 2003.
step in a machine–human collaboration where the automatic grouping
[10] Q. Tian, J. Ma, J. Liang, R. Kowk, O. Liu, and Q. Zhang, “An organi-
results are provided to a human that checks and then approves or
zational decision support system for effective R&D project selection,”
modiﬁes them. Decis.SupportSyst., vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 403–413, May 2005.
[11] W. D. Cook, B. Golany, M. Kress, M. Penn, and T. Raviv, “Optimal allo-
cation of proposals to reviewers to facilitate effective ranking,” Manage.
Sci., vol. 51, no. 4, pp. 655–661, Apr. 2005.
V. C ONCLUSION
[12] A. Arya and B. Mittendorf, “Project assignment when budget padding
taints resource allocation,” Manage. Sci., vol. 52, no. 9, pp. 1345–1358,
This paper has presented an OTMM for grouping of research
Sep. 2006.
proposals. A research ontology is constructed to categorize the concept
[13] C. Choi and Y. Park, “R&D proposal screening system based on text-
terms in different discipline areas and to form relationships among
mining approach,” Int. J. Technol. Intell. Plan., vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 61–72,
them. It facilitates text-mining and optimization techniques to cluster
2006.
[14] K. Girotra, C. Terwiesch, and K. T. Ulrich, “Valuing R&D projects in
research proposals based on their similarities and then to balance them
a portfolio: Evidence from the pharmaceutical industry,” Manage. Sci.,
according to the applicants’ characteristics. The experimental results
vol. 53, no. 9, pp. 1452–1466, Sep. 2007.
at the NSFC showed that the proposed method improved the similarity
[15] Y. H. Sun, J. Ma, Z. P. Fan, and J. Wang, “A group decision support
in proposal groups, as well as took into consideration the applicants’
approach to evaluate experts for R&D project selection,” IEEE Trans.
characteristics (e.g., distributing proposals equally according to the Eng. Manag., vol. 55, no. 1, pp. 158–170, Feb. 2008.
[16] Y. H. Sun, J. Ma, Z. P. Fan, and J. Wang, “A hybrid knowledge and model
applicants’ afﬁliations). Also, the proposed method promotes the
approach for reviewer assignment,” Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 34, no. 2,
efﬁciency in the proposal grouping process.
pp. 817–824, Feb. 2008.
The proposed method can be used to expedite and improve the
[17] S. Hettich and M. Pazzani, “Mining for proposal reviewers: Lessons
proposal grouping process in the NSFC and elsewhere. It uses
learned at the National Science Foundation,” in Proc. 12th Int. Conf.
Knowl.Discov.DataMining, 2006, pp. 862–871.
the data collected from a research social network (ScholarMate;
[18] R. Feldman and J. Sanger, The Text Mining Handbook: Advanced Ap-
http://scholarmate.com) and extends the functions of the Internet-
proaches in Analyzing Unstructured Data. New York: Cambridge Univ.
based Science Information System (https://isis.nsfc.gov.cn). It also
Press, 2007.
provides a formal procedure that enables similar proposals to be
[19] M. Konchady, Text Mining Application Programming. Boston, MA:
grouped together in a professional and ethical manner. The proposed Charles River Media, 2006.
790 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS—PART A: SYSTEMS AND HUMANS, VOL. 42, NO. 3, MAY 2012
[20] C. P. Wei and Y. H. Chang, “Discovering event evolution patterns from [33] F. M. Ham and I. Kostanic, Principles of Neurocomputing for Science &
document sequences,”IEEETrans.Syst.,Man,Cybern.A,Syst.,Humans, Engineering. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2001.
vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 273–283, Mar. 2007. [34] J. Vesanto and E. Alhoniemi, “Clustering of the self-organizing map,”
[21] T. H. Cheng and C. P. Wei, “A clustering-based approach for integrat- IEEETrans.NeuralNetw., vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 586–600, May 2000.
ing document-category hierarchies,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern. A, [35] D. E. Goldberg,GeneticAlgorithmsinSearch,OptimizationandMachine
Syst.,Humans, vol. 38, no. 2, pp. 410–424, Mar. 2008. Learning. Redwood City: Addison-Wesley, 1989.
[22] H. C. Yang and C. H. Lee, “A text mining approach for automatic con- [36] Z. P. Fan, Y. Chen, J. Ma, and Y. Zhu, “Decision support for
struction of hypertexts,” Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 29, no. 4, pp. 723–734, proposal grouping: A hybrid approach using knowledge rule and
Nov. 2005. genetic algorithm,” Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 1004–1013,
[23] M. Nagy and M. Vargas-Vera, “Multiagent ontology mapping framework Mar. 2009.
for the semantic web,”IEEETrans.Syst.,Man,Cybern.A,Syst.,Humans, [37] Y. Liu, X. Wang, and C. Wu, “ConSOM: A conceptional self-organizing
vol. 41, no. 4, pp. 693–704, Jul. 2011. map model for text clustering,” Neurocomputing, vol. 71, no. 4–6,
[24] W. Fan, D. M. Gordon, and P. Pathak, “An integrated two-stage model pp. 857–862, Jan. 2008.
for intelligent information routing,” Decis. Support Syst., vol. 42, no. 1, [38] D. Fensel, Ontologies: A Silver Bullet for Knowledge Management and
pp. 362–374, Oct. 2006. ElectronicCommerce. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 2004.
[25] G. H. Lim, I. H. Suh, and H. Suh, “Ontology-based uniﬁed robot knowl- [39] J. Plisson, P. Ljubic, I. Mozetic, and N. Lavrac, “An ontology for virtual
edge for service robots in indoor environments,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, organization breeding environments,”IEEETrans.Syst.,Man,Cybern.C,
Cybern.A,Syst.,Humans, vol. 41, no. 3, pp. 492–509, May 2011. Appl.Rev., vol. 37, no. 6, pp. 1327–1341, Nov. 2007.
[26] C. Lu, X. Hu, and J. R. Park, “Exploiting the social tagging network [40] M. Cai, W. Y. Zhang, and K. Zhang, “ManuHub: A semantic web system
for web clustering,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern. A, Syst., Humans, for ontology-based service management in distributed manufacturing en-
vol. 41, no. 5, pp. 840–852, Sep. 2011. vironments,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern. A, Syst., Humans, vol. 41,
[27] A. J. C. Trappey, C. V. Trappey, F. C. Hsu, and D. W. Hsiao, “A fuzzy no. 3, pp. 574–582, May 2011.
ontological knowledge document clustering methodology,” IEEE Trans. [41] Y. Liu, Y. Jiang, and L. Huang, “Modeling complex architectures based on
Syst.,Man,Cybern.B,Cybern., vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 806–814, Jun. 2009. granular computing on ontology,”IEEETrans.FuzzySyst., vol. 18, no. 3,
[28] M. Zhang, Z. Lu, and C. Zou, “A Chinese word segmentation based on pp. 585–598, Jun. 2010.
language situation in processing ambiguous words,” Inf. Sci., vol. 162, [42] L. Razmerita, “An ontology-based framework for modeling user
no. 3/4, pp. 275–285, Jun. 2004. behavior—A case study in knowledge management,” IEEE Trans.
[29] T. Ong, H. Chen, W. Sung, and B. Zhu, “Newsmap: A knowledge map Syst., Man, Cybern. A, Syst., Humans, vol. 41, no. 4, pp. 772–783,
for online news,” Decis. Support Syst., vol. 39, no. 4, pp. 583–597, Jul. 2011.
Jun. 2005. [43] L. Zhou and D. Zhang, “An ontology-supported misinformation model:
[30] Y. Liu, C. Xu, Q. Zhang, and Y. Pan, “The smart architect: Scalable Toward a sigital misinformation library,”IEEETrans.Syst.,Man,Cybern.
ontology-based modeling of ancient Chinese architectures,” IEEE Intell. A,Syst.,Humans, vol. 37, no. 5, pp. 804–813, Sep. 2007.
Syst., vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 49–56, Jan./Feb. 2008. [44] Q. Liang, X. Wu, E. K. Park, T. M. Khoshgoftaar, and C. H. Chi,
[31] D. A. Chiang, H. C. Keh, H. H. Huang, and D. Chyr, “The Chinese text “Ontology-based business process customization for composite web ser-
categorization system with association rule and category priority,”Expert vices,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern. A, Syst., Humans, vol. 41, no. 4,
Syst.Appl., vol. 35, no. 1/2, pp. 102–110, Jul./Aug. 2008. pp. 717–729, Jul. 2011.
[32] H. C. Yang, C. H. Lee, and D. W. Chen, “A method for multilingual text [45] O. Liu and J. Ma, “A multilingual ontology framework for R&D project
mining and retrieval using growing hierarchical self-organizing maps,” J. management systems,” Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 37, no. 6, pp. 4626–4631,
Inf.Sci., vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 3–23, Feb. 2009. Jun. 2010.
